{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2706
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Center of the Milky Way
\f1\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Each layer of this sonification used a combination of a musical inverse spectrogram and discrete parameter mapping for compact sources. Each image row was assigned a unique musical pitch (with increasing frequency towards the top of the image); and we used the brightness of the diffuse nebula to control the volume of pure sustained tones. Discrete bright sources (mainly stars) were mapped to individual notes using the same height-frequency mapping. The sonification utilized different instruments depending on the wavelength of light depicted: a glockenspiel for Chandra\'92s X-ray light, a plucked string for Hubble\'92s optical light, and a piano for Spitzer\'92s infrared light.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Cassiopeia A
\f1\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The sonification is broken down by chemical emission, with each sonification representing an element observed: silicon, sulfur, calcium, iron, and the remaining high energy primarily from the blast wave. We represented each layer as a unique note on string instruments, with the volume indicating the locations brightness. The notes order reflected the relative frequencies of light shown in each layer (higher notes corresponded to higher frequencies).\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Chandra Deep Field South
\f1\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The final sonification is the deepest x-ray image ever taken, revealing light emitted by extremely distant supermassive black holes created within a few billion years of the Big Bang. The data revealed hundreds of points of light, with their color indicating the energy of the X-ray energy detected. The image maps pixel color to musical notes. Red through violet were represented as low to high tones, mirroring the trend in their X-ray frequencies. We reduced the image resolution by a factor of four to allow more audible, consistent tones. 
\f1\fs24 \
}